OK let's talk about increasing social app engagement strategies hear from the experts.
Oh isn't done quite yet.
What I would like to talk to you about now is your social app engagement.
What do I mean by that.
I want you to picture in your mind.
You just downloaded and installed an app onto your device.
It happens to be one of your favorite time killer at the moment now in the App Store sees all and knows
all it can tell when you install the app or even how fast it was deleted off your device.
It can tell how often you visit your app and how many minutes you spend with it.
All of this information gets fed back to the app store in question and goes through there a logarithm
for ranking ones app for that particular key word.
So let's say your game app is similar to another app that someone else has both of you have the same
key word in your app title the same keywords and use of the same keywords in both of your descriptions.
Now your competition has more positive reviews hence more people are playing the game map in terms of
minutes or hours.
That right there is enough for your competition's app to rank higher than yours.
It's all about the social engagement of your app.
If your app is having crashes or problems your customers are going to delete your app which will lower
your rankings for sure and quite possibly lower them even more by leaving poor reviews.
The app store takes and collects all this data and comes and comes to how to rank your app against another's
app.
That's how it all works.
Very important to listen carefully to all the feedback you're getting and make those changes in the
next update as fast as possible.
Social signals are your reviews that you receive for your app.
Therefore frequency as well as the quality of your reviews get calculated into your apps rank as well.
Apple and Google app stores probably won't ever admit to these social signals and app engagement but
is well known in private circles.
It does exist though.
One of my favorite insider tips to increase your social engagement is if your app is a game.
Make sure you have a daily gift every 24 hours to dispense out.
This alone will increase your social engagement through the roof ensuring your fans keep coming back
day after day.
Now you can offer in-game currency useful items or perhaps a much needed power up or spin the wheel
and when something the player needs to further himself in the game.
Perhaps you can use a scratch lottery ticket system offer a free life by having the user watch a video.
Let them win something if they match while scratching off 3 or 6 scratch stretchable lottery tickets.
This is a very powerful tool to help increase your daily downloads.
Many games are now incorporating this because they know it lores their fan base back every single day
which helps their game increase in the appstore rankings.
OK I'll see you in the next lecture.